content/pages/about.md, before:

title: About
date: 2024-03-24
modified: 2024-03-25
status: published

Maciej's Dev Blog
=================

![Paradise Divide, Crested Butte]({static}/img/paradise_divide_cb.jpg)

## About this website
This portfolio website serves as a central hub for showcasing my projects, experience, and professional skills. Sections included are:

- Resume: Details about my professional experience, including roles and responsibilities.
- Blog: Posts I have written. These include guides about technologies I use.

## About me
As of March 2024, I am an IT professional that is transitioning towards a more development-oriented role. My journey into programming began during high school, where I had the privilege of enrolling in college-level courses at my local institution while still in 10th grade. It was there that I encountered a professor whose mentorship deepened my passion for programming and the outdoors. Although circumstances led me to initially pursue a career in IT support, I have remained committed to becoming a proficient programmer. In 2023, I started to redouble my efforts to establish myself as a professional software developer.

You'll find links to my GitHub and my LinkedIn profile:

[![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/github-%23121011.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/Xata)

[![LinkedIn](https://img.shields.io/badge/linkedin-%230077B5.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&logoColor=white)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/maciejwal/)

## Technologies
The following was used to create this website:

[![Pelican](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?style=for-the-badge&message=pelican&color=14A0C4&logo=Pelican&logoColor=FFFFFF&label=)](https://github.com/getpelican/pelican)

[![pelican-plugins](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?style=for-the-badge&message=pelican-plugins&color=14A0C4&logo=GitHub&logoColor=FFFFFF&label=)](https://github.com/getpelican/pelican-plugins/tree/master)

[![pelican-themes](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?style=for-the-badge&message=pelican-themes&color=14A0C4&logo=GitHub&logoColor=FFFFFF&label=)](https://github.com/getpelican/pelican-themes/tree/master/pelican-bootstrap3)

[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3670A0?style=for-the-badge&logo=python&logoColor=ffdd54)](https://www.python.org/)

[![Markdown](https://img.shields.io/badge/markdown-%23000000.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=markdown&logoColor=white)](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/)

Commit message:

Add new content
Added new content to my personal website. Added gicsp_certification.md to acknowledge my new certification from GIAC. Updated robots.txt to include DuckDuckBot since I've been using them a lot. Updated the about.md and resume.md sections.

content/pages/about.md, after:

title: About
date: 2024-03-24
modified: 2025-01-10
status: published

Maciej's Dev Blog
=================

![Paradise Divide, Crested Butte]({static}/img/paradise_divide_cb.jpg)

## About this website
This portfolio website serves as a central hub for showcasing my projects, experience, and professional skills. Sections included are:

- Resume: Details about my professional experience, including roles and responsibilities.
- Blog: Posts I have written. These include guides about technologies I use.

## About me
Hello! My name is Maciej. I'm a software developer in Colorado. Currently, I'm serving as the Interim Associate Director of DevOps, Training, and Operations at the Cybersecurity Center at MSU Denver. I'm currently creating a lot of Helm charts and transitioning a SOC ran by students to be running on Kubernetes. In addition to writing A LOT of .yaml files, I also teach CompTIA A+ (a callback to my expierence as an IT professional). My favorite way to teach is when I lead mini-workshops to teach the fundamentals of Kubernetes and other Cloud Native Computing Foundation porjects. Recently in December of 2024, I became a GIAC certified Global Industrial Cyber Security Professional. 

My journey into programming began during high school, where I had the privilege of enrolling in college-level courses at my local institution while still in 10th grade. It was there that I encountered a professor whose mentorship deepened my passion for programming and the outdoors. Although circumstances led me to initially pursue a career in IT support, I have remained committed to becoming a proficient programmer. In 2023, I redoubled my efforts to establish myself as a professional software developer. In August of 2024, while my title isn't software engineer or software developer, I've officially became a software developer (in my book at least) working at MSU Denver. 

You'll find links to my GitHub and my LinkedIn profile:

[![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/github-%23121011.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/Xata)

[![LinkedIn](https://img.shields.io/badge/linkedin-%230077B5.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&logoColor=white)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/maciejwal/)

## Technologies
The following was used to create this website:

[![Pelican](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?style=for-the-badge&message=pelican&color=14A0C4&logo=Pelican&logoColor=FFFFFF&label=)](https://github.com/getpelican/pelican)

[![pelican-plugins](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?style=for-the-badge&message=pelican-plugins&color=14A0C4&logo=GitHub&logoColor=FFFFFF&label=)](https://github.com/getpelican/pelican-plugins/tree/master)

[![pelican-themes](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?style=for-the-badge&message=pelican-themes&color=14A0C4&logo=GitHub&logoColor=FFFFFF&label=)](https://github.com/getpelican/pelican-themes/tree/master/pelican-bootstrap3)

[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3670A0?style=for-the-badge&logo=python&logoColor=ffdd54)](https://www.python.org/)

[![Markdown](https://img.shields.io/badge/markdown-%23000000.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=markdown&logoColor=white)](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/)
